

=== Page 1 ===
Crime Reporting Online FIR CSR Management Application 
ABSTRACT 
The purpose of Crime Report  Management System is to automate the 
existing manual system by the help of computerized equipments and full -fledged 
computer software, fulfilling the requirements of all policemen, so that their 
valuable data/information can be stored for a longer period with easy accessing of 
the same. The required software and hardware are easily available and easy to 
work with. This system also maintains computerized records of all the FIR ,CSR 
filed against crime. The main aim of this project is to notify each and every  
policeman about the release of any criminal, including his/her details, such as, 
criminal’s id, name, type of release and so on. Additionally, it also provides the 
details of any new rule that has been introduced or any event that is going to take 
place. It can be used as an application by the police department to manage the 
records of different activities related to First Information Report. In this system all 
these activities (like registration of the complaint, updating information) are 
managed that sav es time. This application is for the police stations that provide 
facilities for reporting crimes, filing FIR and maintaining prisoner records. It 
provides better prospective for the enhancement of organization regarding quality 
and transparency. 
 
 
 
 
 

=== Page 2 ===
Objectives 
The Online Criminal Record Management System applies to police stations 
across the district and specifically looks into the subject crime detection, 
conviction of criminals depending on a highly responsive backbone of information 
management. The eff iciency of the police and the effectiveness with which it 
tackles crime depend on what quality of information it can derive from its existing 
records and how fast it can have access to it.  
This system is made to keep the records about the prisoners and ab out the 
crimes. Police can login as a user and can add the details of prisoners like name, 
age, address, crime and punishment. They can also write the First Information 
Report and can save it. FIR’s date, time, number and details can be seen any time if 
required by the registered user.  
This system gives unique id to every FIR as required and the prisoner number 
will also be unique. Additionally, it tells about any crime that is done through the 
id of complaint made to the police or if any FIR is done and if the criminal gets 
caught, the information can be updated about the case. 
  

=== Page 3 ===
System Specifications 
Hardware Requirements:-  
Operating System :    Android OS 
Front-End  :    HTML, CSS, and JS 
Back-End  :    Angular JS, PHP, MYSQL 
Android Tools: 
    IDE: android Studio 
    Android Emulator 
    xampp-win32-5.5.19-0-VC11 
  
PHP Tools: 
    xampp-win32-5.5.19-0-VC11 
  

=== Page 4 ===
Existing Solution: 
• In the present scenario  filing an FIR/complaint is a hectic task since one 
must go through a very huge process for justice. It matter how small or big 
the crime is. In general, to file an FIR/complaint one  must search for a  
nearby police station and have to wait until a cop takes upon the request  and 
either we have to recite or have to give it as a written statement.  
• Certainly this takes nearly a day of an individual’ s time. In this busy world, 
it’s quite tough to give up on our routine works. The existing system of 
filing complaints/FIR affects our daily routine, makes us spend a lot of our 
precious time in it. Filing an FIR, meanwhile we could have done three. 
Mainly could give a lot of chances and time for verdicts to easily escape 
from cases making their pre bails ready or even for absconding.  
• To avoid such miserable situations we have designed an app that makes 
everything happen in jut few minutes. Below diagram represents the existing 
process of filing complaints/FIR in police station which starts by a simple 
request from a Citizen 
Proposed Solution:  
• The purpose of this paper is to develop an android application for crime area 
detection and store criminal records. It provides an application for the user 
that would provide an alternate path for the users passing by crime area. It 
allows user to report incidents and get it verified by the police official s. It 
will consist of an application for police officials which can perform database 
operations on criminal record and allows efficient retrieval of required 
information from the centralized database present on Cloud. The application 
targets general public  and police officials for managing the incidents and 
crime without consuming much time. This proposed system will be divided 
into three major modules. 
• This application will be useful for the remote access of criminal data which 
will be helpful for the inve stigations carried by police department. 

=== Page 5 ===
Moreover, it will also provide an alternate safe path on user’s demand before 
entering the crime area. The database for this project will be stored on cloud 
to gain remote access. For avoiding any false incidence to  be notified to 
other user, the information provided will be first verified by the police 
officials. After approval of the information it will be broadcasted to other 
users using the application. 
System Modules: 
ADMIN 
• Login 
• Create category 
• Create department ( division) 
• City 
• Area / Town 
• Create police user 
• Manage police user 
• View compliant report  
• All report ( CSR / FIR ) 
 
POLICE 
• Login 
• View FIR 
• View CSR 
• View status 
User 
• Register 
• Login 
• Create FIR 
• Create CSR 
• View FIR 

=== Page 6 ===
• View CSR 
• View status 
• My profile 
• SOS – SMS alert 
• Update location 
 
MODULES DESCRIPTION  
ADMIN 
• Login 
The main activities in the application are the admin login page for admin. 
The other modules are followed by this login page. This module records only 
admin and password of the admin.  
• Create category 
   An admin  can be create category for every department directory and 
create a category of records.   
• Create department ( division) 
  An admin can be creating a department for an every city and sub division 
also. It based on records will be uploaded. 
• City 
  An admin create city module which be included all city list and user can 
access easily.  
• Area / Town 
  An admin will create area and town is based on the city. It will use of 
upload the compliant with the particular area or town to be mentioned. Then 
police can handle the report easily. 
• Create police user 

=== Page 7 ===
  Admin can create a police user with the personal information like police 
name, which department, address, Mobile number, city and area to be uploaded. 
Then admin can give the police user login id and password.  
• Manage police user 
  Admin will manage the user database if any modification admin can 
change the police details. If police officer will transfer to anywhere to be 
modified in their profile. 
• View compliant report  
  Admin can view the compliant rep ort and admin will forward to 
corresponding police officer. Police officer will take the action for the 
complaint. 
• All report ( CSR / FIR ) 
  Admin will check the all reports like CSR complaints and FIR complaints. 
Admin will maintain the total reports whi ch all are solved complaints and 
dissolved  complaint to be rectified. Then admin update the status of every 
compliant. 
 
 
 
POLICE 
•  Login 
A police officer will login the page with admin created login id and 
password to be used.  This module records only police officer and password 
of the police officer.  
• View FIR 
  A police officer can be view the FIR complaint copies from the user. And 
it also have right to update the status of FIR according to current status. 

=== Page 8 ===
• View CSR 
  A police officer can be view the CSR complaint copies from the user. And 
it also have right to update the status of CSR according to current status. 
• View status 
  A police officer views the status of complaint registry. Police officer will 
waiting for status from the admin. Admin can update the status  after police 
officer will take the action for the complaint. 
User 
• Register 
Another main function of our proposed system is registration, in order to 
register with the unique application details such as name; password, email, 
place and time are required. 
• Login 
The main activities in the application are the user login page for user. The 
other modules are followed by this login page. This module records only user 
and password of the user.  
• Create FIR 
  A user wil l create a FIR complaint contain the complainer name, address, 
nature of complaint and location of complaint everyone is fill the complaint 
registry of FIR.  
• Create CSR 
  A community service register is a register maintained in every Indian 
police station for a non -cognizable offence. If the offence is a cognizable 
offence, then a first information report ( FIR) is created and registered. A CSR 
is also called a daily diary report or diary report. 
• View status 

=== Page 9 ===
  User can view the status of  FIR complaint whether it is officer will take 
the action of complaint they would check the status. 
• My profile 
  User view their my profile and if the user can update the profile details and 
then, the terminate their account. 
• SOS – SMS alert 
  A user will give the alert from the SOS emergency. It is used to if anyone 
affected by someone or some incident they will informed from use of SOS 
emergency application. If officer get any SMS alert they will reach the location. 
• Update location 
  A user can update the current location of incident place or else complaint 
registry place user will update. 
 